## 8 Friday

Today I worked more on the _Depack_ infrastructure and had to figure out how to create a simple-to-write *Form* component for _Bootstrap_. The main puzzle was to understand how to pass properties to the children components from the parent component programmatically, e.g., we want to create a `form-group` which holds a label, input, hint and validation field so that the label points to the input with `htmlFor` attribute, and the input points to the hind with `aria-describedby` attribute. Those attributes need to be created by the form-group automatically, so that the syntax for writing forms can be concise:

```jsx
<Form>
  <FormGroup label="Input" help="Type in something...">
    <Input name="input" value="hello-world" />
  </FormGroup>
  <FormGroup label="Select" help="Please select...">
    <Select name="select" value="2" options={[
      { title: 'Free will', value: '1' },
      { title: 'Unfree will', value: '2',},
    ]} />
  </FormGroup>
  <FormGroup label="TextArea" help="Multiple row input...">
    <TextArea name="textarea">
      One must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star.
    </TextArea>
  </FormGroup>
</Form>
```

In the example above, the `FormGroup` takes care of assigning the id and help-id to the label and input fields:

```html
<div class="form-group">
  <label for="i58483">Input</label>

    <input name="input" class="form-control" type="text" aria-describedby="hi58483" id="i58483">

  <small id="hi58483" class="form-text text-muted">Type in something...</small>
</div>
```

Because the documentation for Preact is lacking, the `getChildContext` is not present anywhere in the docs. I had to Google 100 times "pass properties to children" to see all available methods on the Internet, and when some were so advanced using the new [React Context API](https://github.com/valotas/preact-context) that it was barely possible to grasp what they are actually doing and if it's going to affect how my forms are rendered. The first idea was to clone children components with `cloneElement` from _Preact_ when rendering the `FormGroup` however that would be very inefficient because the input elements would not be reused by the virtual dom diffing which is the whole point of _Preact_. Finally, I found the [generic context provider](https://github.com/synacor/preact-context-provider) that would allow to pass the properties to children in a context. I started to use it, but again I met the same problem as with the `preact-router` where blank text nodes were passed as children to the `<Provider>` which rendered only the first child. Therefore I realised that the problem is really in my JSX parser, which must do some string trimming rather than passing it to the pragma function for rendering:

```js
          // ↓ must not pass the new line to pragma
h('div', {}, `
  `,h('a', {}),`
`)
```

<p>The strings with new lines are there to preserve lines order because source maps for JSX transpiler are not there yet, however they can be [replaced with just whitespace](https://github.com/a-la/jsx/issues/1) in code which is not going to be rendered. Nonetheless, the `<Provider>` component still rendered only a single child, because _Preact_ does not have `<>` support. So I looked into the source code of the generic provider and found out that it uses the method called `getChildContext` which is exactly what I needed. Now I was able to pass required properties to the children in a context, and _a)_ pass the auto-generated *id* and *hid* properties by the `FormGroup`; and _b)_ pass the *values* property which is handled by the `Form` itself, so that the root _Form_ component is able to handle the logic of maintaining the values for form inputs.</p>

<Figure img="img/2019/2-feb/form.gif"
  alt="Demo for @depack/form">
  View the demo at [https://dpck.github.io/form/](https://dpck.github.io/form/)
</Figure>

<p>
The second part of the day after initial prototype of the form, was to put it in the `knedv.ru` website and see if it works. After I've done it, there were a few points that came up: first, the ``@idio/frontend`` did not serve packages that were linked locally, because they resolved to paths like `../../depack/form` instead of `node_modules/@depack/form`. This was a disadvantage, however it could be temporary overcome by importing them via relative paths (i.e. `import { Form } from '../../node_modules/@depack/form` instead of `import { Form } from '@depack/form'`). The second problem was to do with how _Depack_ bundled packages, where JSX syntax was not transpiled, and no additional dependencies were  discovered in required *node_modules*
(only in source code).

```js
// index.jsx
import { Form } from '@depack/form' // this is fine

// @depack/form
export { Input } from './Input' // this broke
  // as frontend didn't resolve paths in node_modules
```

This didn't come up before because I only tried to compile simple code that imported _Preact_ which also had no dependencies. Therefore, in the spirit of test-driven-development, I had to write tests for the bundler logic first and then implement the change that would facilitate that. To simplify the overall structure of _Depack_, I separated the bundler logic into the `@depack/bundle` package where I transferred the existing code. However, both compiler and bundler parts of _Depack_ needed a method called ``findPackageJson``, so to share it between them, I created a separate package called `fpj` for *Find Package Json*. It finds the location of the *package.json* file for a given dependency that is required in a certain file. This will also help me in future to fix front-end bug that prevents serving linked packages, because the issue with it is that it uses `require.resolve` that returns absolute paths and not linked files.
</p>

### TODO
<ul>

* Investigate `<>` support in JSX transpiler.
* Allow to evoke a component with `<this.component>` and similar (with a dot) tags.
* Remove white-spaces according to React's logic in the transpiler.

</ul>

<SectionBreak />