## 15 Friday

Friday was documenting _Depack/Render_ to give examples of both standard and pretty rendering. The default line length was also reduced from 80 to 40 and documented easily with _Documentary_ by updating the ``types/index.xml`` file. There was also the task of updating the docs for _Depack/Form_, but because <NPMBadge package="alamode" version="1.8.1">_ÀLaMode_</NPMBadge> was not updated to include bugfixes in _À-La/JSX_ I had to release the new version that would render the boolean attributes used in forms correctly (e.g., `<option selected>` instead of `<option selected="true">`). However instead of just upping the versions of node_modules
, I wanted to contribute to the Quality Assurance of the package and implemented a test for the require hook that transpiles JSX. Previously, there were no tests for such functionality and it was a slight challenge to understand how to test it. The method chosen to do that is via forks to make sure that the `require` function is "fresh" for every test &mdash; otherwise it's a function with side-effects such as caching, so there's a possibility that tests would produce an incorrect result. To mask test `require` via a fork, the input from the mask is taken and put in a temp JSX file using _TempContext_, which is then required by the tests. The input then also prints the function which is contained in it and which will be transpiled by the hook if everything goes right.

```js
// The mask test setup.
export const jsx = makeTestSuite('test/result/jsx.js', {
  fork: {
    module: 'test/fixture/require',
    /**
     * @param {TempContext} t
     */
    async getOptions({ write }) {
      const p = await write('temp.jsx', this.input)
      return {
        env: {
          MODULE_PATH: resolve(p),
        },
      }
    },
  },
  context: TempContext,
  jsonProps: ['expected'],
})
```

```jsx
// The mask result: transpiles jsx with the require hood
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="test">
      Hello World
    </div>
  )
}

export { App }

console.log(App.toString())

/* stdout */
function App() {
  return (
    h('div',{className:"test"},
      `Hello World`
    )
  )
}

/**/
```

The idea for mask testing that I had was only possible with some changes to _Zoroaster_, because there was no way to access the `input` property from the fork config's `getOptions` method, and I planned previously to update the Mask API to access this and other properties, so I added the tests for _Zoroaster_ which would start passing as soon as I updated _ContextTesting/Fork_.

### ToDo

<ToDo>Create the fork of `pirates` which assigns require hooks, but is transpiled with _Babel_ so that it is not possible to use it with _Depack_.</ToDo>
<ToDo>Compile _ÀLaMode_ with _Depack_.</ToDo>

<SectionBreak />